Let's actually do a few things.
We'll make a session, and
we can also sign the cookie.
And this idea of signing, or hashing, or
encrypting is going to be a thing
that we do repeatedly as well.
Which one do we wanna do first?
When I make a session,
do we wanna sign it?
Let's sign it first cuz
I think it'll be easier.
To see what signing does in this case.
So, to sign something
is effectively a very,
lightweight format to encrypt it, right?
And I don't pretend to be
an expert in cryptography, but
I'll give you the, high-level TLDR.
On how signing stuff works
is you have your value,
that is the thing going back and forth.
You have secret thing that only you know,
right?
Should you put them in
the blender together,
you should end up with a certain result
that if they do not have that secret,
they cannot put the two things in the
blender and create the same thing, right?
That was very technical I know,
I know, right?
And so,
thing that you should definitely not do
is make a variable called cookieSecret and
put it in your code, right?
Because, let's review.
If you push that code up,
you know who else has your little secret?
Everyone with access to your repo.
If for some reason you have an exploit and
someone can pull code out, right, and
we'll see some ways that you can do that.
Everyone has access to your secret.
If you've hard coded it in everywhere and
you have a disgruntled
former employee,
everyone has access to your secret.
So we'll put it here for now, but we'll
look the next level, the easiest good
way to do this afterwards is stored
at least in an environment variable.
So you have different ones for
staging versus production, so on and so
forth, right?
And then we can look at Amazon key
storage and stuff along those lines, for
when you have distributed systems or
just many web servers, and
store environment variables and rotating
those is no longer an option, right?
But for now, this will work.
And so we can say that this has got
a cookieSecret, which we're gonna say.
Is, I think it's actually gonna be secret,
let's see.
We can just actually pass it
in as the first argument.
Yeah, what I was doing.
Sometimes you just gotta
believe in yourself.
Okay, so now we've given it a secret,
which means out of the box,
and this app will probably break in
a second for reasons we'll kinda see.
We've got this idea of a cookieSecret,
which is just that first
argument that goes in there.
And now it is something that this plugin
or you can do yourself is affected and
we'll see how to like hash and
sign stuff ourselves later.
But it'll sign those cookies.
And so now you have one where it's like,
we the browser will be able to read
the cookie, but
it will also know if it was ever changed.
We're basically gonna send
two things along the way.
Here's the value of the cookie, and
here's proof that we know the secret.
You can change the cookie, and
theoretically, if you can't change, if you
can't prove that this would be the output
of mixing that cookie in with the secret,
it ain't gonna work.
We don't wanna store our cookie secret
in the code unless we are not interested
in setting up environment variables in
front of people just to make a point.
So for our case we will do that, but
I will then once again say that if you do
this on your own,
I cannot be held responsible.
We're gonna put that at the bottom
of the video, it's gonna be great.
So this is basically just some secret
key that the cookie-parser can
use to sign the cookies.
Now it does need to hold
on to the original one and
also you might not want all
of the cookies to be signed.
The idea that some of the cookies
are accessible through JavaScript might be
something that you want.
If, for instance, you were storing whether
or not they wanna be in dark mode as
a cookie, cuz you don't even wanna
deal with local storage, right?
You might choose to make that
not an HTTP-only cookie, right?
Or whatever you might have different
settings for different cookies.
And in that case, that way you
can access it from JavaScript.
You might not want to sign all of
your cookies for whatever reason,
particularly if you are also
setting them in JavaScript.
But for the point of a user session,
as we saw before,
we would like to not leak these.
So we pass in our cookieSecret.
Now, we do need to do two things.
When you have a cookieSecret, you've got
req.cookies, which is your cookies, right?
And then you have this idea
of req.signedCookies, right?
This is the cookie plus the signature.
And we can go take a look
at that in a second.
So we gotta do a few things.
Before, when we were setting cookie,
setting attributes on the cookies,
we're setting cookies and
setting attributes on the cookies that
we're setting, say that three times fast.
we said that we wanted httpOnly.
We said that if we were in production,
send it over https and
we will also say that this one
ought to be a signed cookie and so
now it'll be one of the signed cookies and
at this point now the two places
that we reference either.
On the login redirect, which if we
miss this one, life will go on, but
let's not take any chances.
And then we will also grab it
on the profile page, right?
We also want the signedCookies.
Awesome, and
I'm pretty sure I will have to log out.
Let's delete that cookie.
Just for safe measure.
bobbytables, papayawhip, right?
And we look at the value like
it's still in plain text.
But if I were to now go ahead and
try to change this part here to admin.
Right, you can see that like that,
yeah, we'll change it to admin, right?
I don't have the necessary secret on
the client to make the other half of this
cookie value, which means it is going
to try to then look at that and say.
Hey, if I put the secret and
admin in together,
am I gonna get this hash and
we're not, right?
And so at the very least, username is
still in plain text, but the ability to
just go into your browser and manipulate
it is no longer an option, right?
I believe we'll just, yeah,
at that point, we kicked them out, right,
cuz they are not in fact an admin.
Logging in will then
reset the bobbytables.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and now we
reset the cookie again on login, right?
So now that initial vector, I'm gonna
change my username to whatever I want.
They can still see the username,
they just can't change it cuz
we've signed the cookie, right?
But we could do one better, right,
and actually just completely,
obfuscate it with a session.
And again, that gives us the ability to
say, hey, that login from the Netherlands.
Let's get rid of that one, but
let's keep the one in Minneapolis.
And so this is kinda something
that we mostly just do on our own.
We do need to give it some kind
of random identifier, right?
And for the purposes of a session,
we do need to store that
random identifier somewhere.
Now in Node.js you have a bunch of
options, obviously you can store it in
the database with the users node
being a kind of stateful web service.
You could theoretically store it in
memory in a JavaScript object, right?
Also, and that'll work.
Now that has problems, which is, if you
are building a simple little demo app and
it's one express server,
yeah, do it, go for it, neat.
If your web app is either serverless or
multi-server, which we'll kinda deal with
later in the course, you have a new
set of problems, congratulations.
You can also store in a database.
You will probably want to clear
out things in the database.
So theoretically, you could have
a cron script that clears out old
sessions if they haven't logged out,
so on and so forth.
But we'll do just the naive version
to get the security point across,
and then we'll look at some
other options later as well.
So in my database,
I also have this idea of sessions and
all my sessions are right now is.
It has a sessionId and
that is tied to a username.
So now, instead of passing its username
back and forth, in plain sight,
when they log in,
we'll create a unique session for
them that is abstracted
away from the user.
When they log out,
we will then destroy that session, or
at least get rid of the cookie.
And this is a pretty common pattern
because it then separates that identity
from the session and from the cookie
itself, which again, sometimes is
simply about a separation of concerns,
just like if you're writing code.
All right, cool, so we do need
some way to generate a sessionId.
There's lots of different options.
Do you need your own function for this?
You probably don't, but I'm gonna do it
just cuz I think it makes it a little bit
more clear, so that we kinda see what
we're doing, cuz sometimes just making
well known, well named functions
is a great form of documentation.
So we'll say, generate sessionId, and
you've got a bunch of ways
that you can do this, right?
You just need really a known,
unique value so you don't have any.
You don't really have any collisions.
Because if you give two people the same
sessionId, you have now created a security
problem of your own and you have no one to
blame and good luck in that post-mortem.
Let's pull in, so you got one option
is that Node has a crypto plugin.
For various cryptography related purposes.
And so we could do in this
case is we can return 16 bytes
random data in hexadecimal.
That's going to look like most like
sessionIds you've ever seen before in
your life.
So now when a user walks in, walks,
yeah, let's go, to go with that logs in,
walks in, whatever.
Right, we can also go ahead and,
instead of,
we can go ahead and
create them a session, right?
So on that post, we'll go get the user,
and if that user exists, right?
Cuz if it doesn't,
we don't need to make them a session.
Before I forget, and I'll say this now,
the other nice part about using sessions
is, again,
when we talked about the very beginning,
what if they put a bunch of stuff
in their cart and then log in?
You can theoretically create the session
before you have a user, right?
And then when they log in,
it's like, here's all the stuff that you
put in your cart before you logged in.
Right, there are very good practical
UX reasons to do this as well.
So then we pull in that sessionId, right?
And we'll go ahead and into our database,
we'll put in the id for
the session as well as the username, and
then we'll set the sessionId, right?
It could have been username.
You could make an argument that calling
a sessionId might be too obvious, and
you might choose to call it
something a little bit more clever.
I'm not gonna do that, because I'm not
trying to be clever at this moment.
I am just trying to teach stuff.
So we'll go ahead, and we'll put that
sessionId in there, which basically,
at this point, we don't,
let's get rid of that code. Cool and
so now instead of if I loved myself
more and maybe I'll do this later.
I put this in a try catch block in case
that database call fails which was
our issue earlier.
But this is a silly little app and
I'm not doing that right now.
So we go ahead we put that session in and
now instead of at the profile page.
We don't want the username per se,
we want that sessionId.
>> Steve Kinney: SessionId,
cool, cool, cool.
And yeah, there's none of that.
If they don't have a session,
kick them out to the login page.
Otherwise, we'll go ahead and
we'll go get the.
>> Steve Kinney: What did I make?
What did I call it?
I called it, the username is the other,
yeah it's username, cool.
Session.username.
Okay, so now we go ahead,
we figure out what user they are, again,
you might choose to store this in
memory for performance reasons, great.
You might choose to put it in Redis,
I don't care.
Redis is cool, cuz you can set an expiry
on the keys and values there as well.
But basically,
what we're seeking to do here is go get
the session ID from the cookie, right?
Go find out what user that
is behind the scenes, right?
And now we're kinda never talking
about the user publicly again, and
then go ahead and send them the file.
Session, it was username.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll go to profile,
and we should be good.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep, so now we've got
an obfuscated sessionId that's detached from
the user, we could kill off
different sessions as we need to.
It also means that basically we can
now remote kill sessions, right?
Cuz it was just a username,
you'd have to kill the user or
something along those lines.
Now, if we knew we had an issue, we could
theoretically terminate all sessions
remotely, right, or
something along those lines.
So sometimes it's about
making sure no one breaks in.
The other one is to have the mechanisms in
place should the worst happen to actually
go ahead and
protect yourself from that as well.
We can't hijack that cookie from
the browser, we can't tamper with it.
They could guess another sessionId
most likely that was in the system, right?
But even if they did, the signature's
also one more layer of security, right?
So, should you accidentally have something
that makes a mistake somewhere in your
application?
You've also protected yourself
a few other ways as well, right?
And the idea sometimes is all,
no one purposely leaves security holes in
their application, an accident happens.
Somebody was, maybe at three in the
morning responding to an incident, right.
And they made a silly mistake.
And so the idea is that, should that
happen, you have several other ones.
That's gonna be a theme of
what we talk about today.